Add probabilistic sampler processor (#5151)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler/
labels:

>   stage: opensource

Reviewer: Normally the value of "stage" will be one of the three values listed in the [Stability docs](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/stability/):

- Experimental
- Beta
- Stable

`probabilistic_sampler` has different stabilities for logs (alpha) and traces (beta), so we should make that clear too.

Unfortunately, when I added the last few Otel Flow components, I forgot to set the stability labels on them. There is an ongoing discussion in these two PRs:
https://github.com/grafana/agent/pull/4948
https://github.com/grafana/agent/pull/4343

The main part is that we should not label something as less than "stable" if we have already listed it as "stable" in previous versions. So I'd suggest labeling `probabilistic_sampler` as `Experimental`, and we can change it later if it's more appropriate.

> requests will be redirected to the upstream repository, if necessary.

You can specify multiple `otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler` components by giving them
different labels.

## Usage

```river
otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler "LABEL" {
  output {
    logs    = [...]
    traces  = [...]
  }
}
```

## Usage for traces

The `probabilistic_sampler` supports two types of sampling for traces: 
1. `sampling.priority` [semantic
   convention](https://github.com/opentracing/specification/blob/master/semantic_conventions.md#span-tags-table) as defined by OpenTracing
2. Trace ID hashing

The `sampling.priority` semantic convention takes priority over trace ID hashing. 
Trace ID hashing samples based on hash values determined by trace IDs.

### Arguments

For traces `otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type     | Description | Default | Required
---- |----------| ----------- |---------| --------
`hash_seed`               | `uint32` | An integer used to compute the hash algorithm. Note that all collectors for a given tier (e.g. behind the same load balancer) should have the same hash_seed. |         | no

> `sampling_percentage`     | `float32`| Percentage at which traces are sampled; >= 100 samples all traces | `0`     | no

Reviewer: Same here - shouldn't `sampling_percentage` be required?

Author: no, the default value is 0 = no sampling

> ## Usage for logs

Reviewer: All the Flow components have a consistent [page structure](https://github.com/grafana/agent/blob/main/docs/developer/writing-flow-component-documentation.md#page-structure). Would you mind reworking the docs to adhere to it please? It'd mean that we don't have a "Usage for logs" and "Usage for traces" sections. Instead, the "Arguments" section will need to explain how to use the component for traces and logs.

The probabilistic sampler optionally may use a `hash_seed` to compute the hash of a log record.
This sampler samples based on hash values determined by log records. In order for hashing to work, all collectors for a given tier (e.g. behind the same load balancer) must have the same `hash_seed`. It is also possible to leverage a different `hash_seed` at different collector tiers to support additional sampling requirements.

### Arguments

For logs `otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type      | Description | Default | Required
---- |-----------| ----------- |---------| --------
`hash_seed`               | `uint32`  | An integer used to compute the hash algorithm. Note that all collectors for a given tier (e.g. behind the same load balancer) should have the same hash_seed. |         | no
`sampling_percentage`     | `float32` | Percentage at which traces are sampled; >= 100 samples all traces | `0`     | no
`attribute_source`        | `string`  | Defines where to look for the attribute in from_attribute. The allowed values are `traceID` or `record` | `"traceID"`  | no

> `from_attribute`          | `string`  | The optional name of a log record attribute used for sampling purposes, such as a unique log record ID. The value of the attribute is only used if the trace ID is absent or if `attribute_source` is set to `record` | | no

Reviewer: Ideally the "Description" field should be kept short. Then we would list the details under the table.

> `sampling_priority`       | `string`  | The optional name of a log record attribute used to set a different sampling priority from the `sampling_percentage` setting. 0 means to never sample the log record, and >= 100 means to always sample the log record | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`sampling_priority`       | `string`  | The optional name of a log record attribute used to set a different sampling priority from the `sampling_percentage` setting. 0 means to never sample the log record, and >= 100 means to always sample the log record | `""` | no
```

If an argument is optional, we need to specify the default value.

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name | Type | Description
---- | ---- | -----------
`input` | `otelcol.Consumer` | A value that other components can use to send telemetry data to.

> `input` accepts `otelcol.Consumer` data for any telemetry signal (metrics,
> logs, or traces).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`input` accepts `otelcol.Consumer` OTLP-formatted data for telemetry signals of these types:
* logs
* traces
```

## Component health

`otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration.

## Debug information

`otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler` does not expose any component-specific debug
information.

> ## Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Examples
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Basic usage
```

```river
otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler "default" {
  hash_seed           = 123
  sampling_percentage = 15.3

  output {
    logs = [otelcol.exporter.otlp.default.input]
  }
}
```

> Sample 15% of the logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sample 15% of the logs
```

```river
otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler "default" {
  sampling_percentage = 15

  output {
    logs = [otelcol.exporter.otlp.default.input]
  }
}
```

> Sample logs according to their logID attribute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sample logs according to their "logID" attribute
```

```river
otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler "default" {
  sampling_percentage = 15
  attribute_source    = "record"
  from_attribute      = "logID"

  output {
    logs = [otelcol.exporter.otlp.default.input]
  }
}
```

> Sample logs according to the attribute `priority`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sample logs according to a "priority" attribute
```

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler/
labels:
  stage: experimental
title: otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler
---

# otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler

> `otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler` accepts logs and traces data from other otelcol components and apply probabilistic sampling based on configuration options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler` accepts logs and traces data from other otelcol components and applies probabilistic sampling based on configuration options.
```

> > **Note**: `otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler` is a wrapper over the upstream
> > OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib `probabilistic_sampler` processor. Bug reports or feature
> > requests will be redirected to the upstream repository, if necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{% admonition type="note" %}}
`otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler` is a wrapper over the upstream
OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib `probabilistic_sampler` processor. If necessary, 
bug reports or feature requests will be redirected to the upstream repository.
{{% /admonition %}}
```

You can specify multiple `otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler` components by giving them
different labels.

## Usage

```river
otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler "LABEL" {
  output {
    logs    = [...]
    traces  = [...]
  }
}
```

## Arguments

`otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type      | Description                                                                                                          | Default     | Required
---- |-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------| --------
`hash_seed`               | `uint32`  | An integer used to compute the hash algorithm.                                                                       | `0`         | no

> `sampling_percentage`     | `float32` | Percentage at which traces or logs are sampled.                                                                      | `0`         | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`sampling_percentage`     | `float32` | Percentage of traces or logs sampled.                                                                      | `0`         | no
```

`attribute_source`        | `string`  | Defines where to look for the attribute in `from_attribute`.                                                         | `"traceID"` | no
`from_attribute`          | `string`  | The name of a log record attribute used for sampling purposes.                                                       | `""`        | no
`sampling_priority`       | `string`  | The name of a log record attribute used to set a different sampling priority from the `sampling_percentage` setting. | `""`        | no

> `hash_seed` determines an integer to compute the hash algorithm. Could be used for both: traces and logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`hash_seed` determines an integer to compute the hash algorithm. This argument could be used for both traces and logs.
```

> When using for logs it computes the hash of a log record.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When used for logs, it computes the hash of a log record.
```

> In order for hashing to work, all collectors for a given tier (e.g. behind the same load balancer) must have the same `hash_seed`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For hashing to work, all collectors for a given tier, for example, behind the same load balancer, must have the same `hash_seed`. 
```

It is also possible to leverage a different `hash_seed` at different collector tiers to support additional sampling requirements. 

> `sampling_percentage` determines the percentage at which traces or logs are sampled; >= 100 samples all

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`sampling_percentage` determines the percentage at which traces or logs are sampled. All traces or logs are sampled if you set this argument to a value greater than or equal to 100.
```

`attribute_source` (logs only) determines where to look for the attribute in `from_attribute`. The allowed values are `traceID` or `record`.  

> `from_attribute` (logs only) determines the name of a log record attribute used for sampling purposes, such as a unique log record ID. The value of the attribute is only used if the trace ID is absent or if `attribute_source` is set to `record`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`from_attribute` (logs only) determines the name of a log record attribute used for sampling purposes, such as a unique log record ID. The value of the attribute is only used if the trace ID is absent or if `attribute_source` is set to `record`.
```

> `sampling_priority` (logs only) determines the name of a log record attribute used to set a different sampling priority from the `sampling_percentage` setting. 0 means to never sample the log record, and >= 100 means to always sample the log record

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`sampling_priority` (logs only) determines the name of a log record attribute used to set a different sampling priority from the `sampling_percentage` setting. 0 means to never sample the log record, and greater than or equal to 100 means to always sample the log record.
```

The `probabilistic_sampler` supports two types of sampling for traces:

> 1. `sampling.priority` [semantic
>    convention](https://github.com/opentracing/specification/blob/master/semantic_conventions.md#span-tags-table) as defined by OpenTracing
> 2. Trace ID hashing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `sampling.priority` [semantic
   convention](https://github.com/opentracing/specification/blob/master/semantic_conventions.md#span-tags-table) as defined by OpenTracing.
2. Trace ID hashing.
```

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler/
labels:
  stage: experimental
title: otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler
---

# otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler

`otelcol.processor.probabilistic_sampler` accepts logs and traces data from other otelcol components and applies probabilistic sampling based on configuration options.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
